# Refining Machine Learning Outputs With Time-Series Based Post-Processing: Demonstration Using Accelerometer-Based Animal Behaviour Classifications

## TL;DR
- accelerometers are used on animals and we are struggling to get good performance
- but what if we didnt need the performance to be perfect to get the right answer
- predictions are just step 1 in the analysis pipeline but step 2, known as "post-processing", is overlooked in our field
- with use of secondary analysis, the predictions generated by the ML models can be improved upon
- in this paper I compare 5 types of increasingly sophisticated post-processing methods to improve the predictions generated from 3 animal behaviour datasets
- I find that the simple method is generally sufficient to improve performance significantly and recommend that studies incorporate this information into their analysis
## Introduction
Ecologists can sometimes mistake the output of accelerometer-based ML animal behaviour models as being a ‘fact’ of what the animal did, but it is actually just a probability prediction. While other fields of machine learning recognise the uncertainty of predictions and have a well-developed secondary analysis phase known as post-processing to correct the uncertainty, this is missing from the animal accelerometer-based behavioural classification pipeline. In this section of the chapter I will attempt to begin designing a potential scaffold for a post-processing approach to animal accelerometry, drawing in ecological understanding derived from the sequential nature of time-series data.

We do not need perfect prediction accuracy at the level of individual 1–2 second windows to arrive at ecologically meaningful interpretations. Ecological questions typically concern broad behavioural patterns (e.g., activity budgets, temporal rhythms, or habitat changes) aggregated over hours, days, or even seasons and longer-term natural cycles. These broader-scale patterns can actually tolerate a lot of inaccuracy in the raw predictions, especially if we incorporate domain knowledge to ‘smooth’ over misclassifications. By using ecologically relevant assumptions (e.g., known behaviour transitions, biological rhythms, or improbable sequences) we can fill in gaps and correct local errors, improving the consistency and ecological validity of the behavioural timeline without needing 100% accuracy at the raw prediction level.

There are multiple analysis techniques that take data sequence into account. The second component of this chapter will explore the use of Hidden Markov Models for the sequential smoothing and post-processing of raw accelerometer predictions into meaningful ecological units. This approach aims to capture the temporal dependencies inherent in animal behaviour and use these to improve the classifications.







## Target Journals
- Phil Tran B --> However, this costs money after the first 6 pages...
- it's a methods paper... once again, going to struggle to get into pure eco/evo journals